Add digital certificate (#537)
cncf/glossary: content/en/digital_certificate.md

---
title: Digital Certificate
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: Concept
---

## What it is

> A digital certificate or  a public key certificate, which is issued by the Certificate Authority, is an electronic password that allows an entity to exchange data or resources over the internet in a secured manner. This is achieved by proving the authenticity of the user through the use of encryption methods and set of roles, policies, resources used to manage, use and revoke this digital certificate and encryptions. Much as a passport certifies one’s identity, the purpose of a digital certificate is to establish the identity of users within the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Digital certificates or public key certificates are issued by a certificate authority (CA). These certificates are electronic files or passwords that allow entities to exchange data or resources over the internet securely. 

Certificates authenticate the user through encryption methods and a set of roles, policies, and resources used to manage, use and revoke certificates and encryptions. Just as a passport certifies an individual's identity, a digital certificate establishes the user's identity. Note that a user can be a person or service within a [microservices](https://glossary.cncf.io/microservices/) app. 
```

Reviewer: Edited the text a bit. Same content but worded slightly differently. This feels like a bit too much information: "through encryption methods and a set of roles, policies, and resources used to manage, use and revoke certificates and encryptions." It will probably raise more questions than answering them. Should we skip this? Maybe this is enough?

> Certificates authenticate users through encryption methods and a set of roles and policies. Just as a passport certifies an individual's identity, a digital certificate establishes the user's identity. Note that a user can be a person or service within a [microservices](https://glossary.cncf.io/microservices/) app.

## Problem it addresses

> Digital certificates help solve web-based communication security issues. Networks developed without much thought to security. TCP/IP, the most prevalent communication protocol, was designed around precepts of robust communication rather than secure transactions. While the OSI network model designed a layer between the application and network that could manage security handshakes, TCP/IP left everything above the communication layer to the application. Consequently each application developed its own negotiation strategy. Rather than building a generic, reusable security mechanism, applications relied on proprietary or embedded techniques for shuffling account information across the network to the platform or application for validation.

Reviewer: This section here is far too technical. Please remember that we are trying to make this accessible to non-technical people as well. TCP/IP, OSI network model, security handshakes, layers between apps and networks...these are all things that aren't commonly understood. Could please try to explain this without all these industry terms?

Author: Thanks very much @CathPag  for the feedback. I revised my work and made some updates to it

## How it helps

> Digital certificates are the most practical option to securing your corporate data online. They encrypt your internal and external communications to avoid outsiders and phishers from stealing sensitive information. From small to large businesses, public key certificates can still provide you with the same quality of encryption. You can easily centralize the management of your certificates with the help of platforms such as managed public key infrastructure. Digital certificates are so scalable, you can even use it to secure your personal devices. Institutions known as public trusted Certificate Authorities handle the issuance of digital certificates making it reliable.  By ultimately encrypting your company website and digitally signing your documents and emails, you are projecting a positive reputation to your clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Digital certificates are the most practical option for securing data online. Certificates encrypt internal and external communications to prevent outsiders and phishers from stealing sensitive information. They provide the same encryption quality for small to large businesses alike. 

Digital certificates are highly scalable and can even be used to secure personal devices. Institutions known as public trusted certificate authorities handle the issuance of digital certificates, ensuring they are reliable. Certificate management can be easily centralized through managed public key infrastructure platforms. 
```

Reviewer: Mostly edits here again (content didn't change). I did remove "By ultimately encrypting your company website and digitally signing your documents and emails, you are projecting a positive reputation to your clients," as this seems to be providing advice or judging those who don't do that. I think we need to keep it highly factual. 

Also, do we need "They provide the same encryption quality for small to large businesses alike.?" Why would the quality change depending on your size? After all, it's the same technology. I think we should skip that sentence. What do you think?

---
title: Digital Certificate
status: Feedback Appreciated
category: Concept
---

## What it is
Digital certificates or public key certificates are issued by a certificate authority (CA). These certificates are electronic files or passwords that allow entities to exchange data or resources over the internet securely. 

> Certificates authenticate the user through encryption methods and a set of roles, policies, and resources used to manage, use and revoke certificates and encryptions. Just as a passport certifies an individual's identity, a digital certificate establishes the user's identity. Note that a user can be a person or service within a [microservice](https://glossary.cncf.io/microservices/) app. 

Reviewer: Looks like you might have missed this comment in my previews feedback:

This feels like a bit too much information: "through encryption methods and a set of roles, policies, and resources used to manage, use and revoke certificates and encryptions." It will probably raise more questions than answering them. Should we skip this? Maybe this is enough?

> Certificates authenticate users through encryption methods and a set of roles and policies. Just as a passport certifies an individual's identity, a digital certificate establishes the user's identity. Note that a user can be a person or service within a [microservices](https://glossary.cncf.io/microservices/) app.

Reviewer: We need a line between the two paragraphs

## Problem it addresses

> Digital certificates help solve web-based communication security issues. Networks were developed without much thought to security. The most generic set of rules and policies to process data known as protocols, were designed around precepts of robust communication rather than secure transactions. No centralized mechanism was designed and implemented to ensure security over network communiications. Consequently each application developed its own negotiation strategy. Rather than building a generic, reusable security mechanism, applications relied on proprietary or embedded techniques for shuffling account information across the network to the platform or application for validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Networks, such as the internet, are inherently insecure. Communication is managed through protocols (rules and policies to process data), but these are generic and designed to focus on robust communication rather than secure transactions. There is no centralized mechanism to secure communication. Consequently, each application must have its authentication strategy. Rather than building a generic, reusable security mechanism, applications relied on proprietary or embedded techniques for shuffling account information across the network for validation.
```

Reviewer: I removed the first sentence because, ideally, in the problem it addresses section, we don't even mention the solution. The remaining changes are stylistic.

Author: @CathPag thankyou for the feedback. I am fixing it right away

## How it helps
Digital certificates are the most practical option for securing data online. Certificates encrypt internal and external communications to prevent outsiders and phishers from stealing sensitive information. They provide the same encryption quality for small to large businesses alike. 

> Digital certificates are highly scalable and can even be used to secure personal devices. Institutions known as public trusted certificate authorities handle the issuance of digital certificates, ensuring they are reliable. Certificate management can be easily centralized through managed public key infrastructure platforms. 

Reviewer: Please add a line between the paragraphs.

---

> title: Digital Certificate

Reviewer 2: Why are we calling this a digital certificate instead of just certificate? I don't necessarily object but the title was less clear to me than it should be. @iamNoah1 @seokho-son @CathPag I think this item demonstrates why we need to add a metadata field for alternative names. An alternate name section would let us provide other common names for a particular entry.

status: Feedback Appreciated
category: Concept
---

## What it is
Digital certificates or public key certificates are issued by a certificate authority (CA). These certificates are electronic files or passwords that allow entities to exchange data or resources over the internet securely.

> Certificates authenticate the user through encryption methods and a set of roles and policies. Just as a passport certifies an individual's identity, a digital certificate establishes the user's identity. Note that a user can be a person or service within a [microservice](https://glossary.cncf.io/microservices/) app. 

Reviewer 2: I would like to drop line 10. This goes into a specific use case and isn't sufficiently general.

> ## Problem it addresses

Reviewer 2: I think this needs to be reworked. While authenticating a user is one possible use for certificates there are many others including the much more common use of providing the underlying identity and encryption mechanism for TLS.

This entire section needs to be rewritten in a way that is more broadly applicable. 

That being said this is a great effort and I really appreciate your work.

Networks, such as the internet, are inherently insecure. Communication is managed through protocols (rules and policies to process data), but these are generic and designed to focus on robust communication rather than secure transactions.

There is no centralized mechanism to secure communication. Consequently, each application must have its authentication strategy. Rather than building a generic, reusable security mechanism, applications relied on proprietary or embedded techniques for shuffling account information across the network for validation.

## How it helps

> Digital certificates are the most practical option for securing data online. Certificates encrypt internal and external communications to prevent outsiders and phishers from stealing sensitive information. They provide the same encryption quality for small to large businesses alike. 

Reviewer 2: I think you're on the right track but the how it helps needs to be simplified. It might be worth it to talk about TLS more broadly or even add a reference to a good definition of TLS as certificates are one aspect of TLS. I'd also like to see a link to a good definition of PKI. To be clear I do **not** think the glossary should include either term.

Author: @JasonMorgan  thankyou for the feedbacks. concerning this section, should I completely change the explannation concerning the How it helps ?

## What it is
Digital certificates or public key certificates are issued by a certificate authority (CA). These certificates are electronic files or passwords that allow entities to exchange data or resources over the internet securely.

> Digital certificate provides confirmation that a website is genuine and that documents and emails are authentic. This projects public trust, assuring clients that they are dealing with a genuine company that values their security and privacy.. Just as a passport certifies an individual's identity, a digital certificate establishes the user's identity. Note that a user can be a person or service within a [microservice](https://glossary.cncf.io/microservices/) app. 

Reviewer: I don't think this example works. Certificates can't tell me if the website I'm on is what it claims it is — the internet is full of fraudulent offerings. That aside, Jason is asking to go into the identity and encryption mechanisms for TLS and make it broader so we aren't only focusing on user authentication. 

If this is not something you are familiar with, no worries. Please say so and we'll get someone else to help with that.

Author: @CathPag , I am sorry I have lot of struggle to fix what's asked from me. Yes please, I wish for someone to help me with that

Reviewer: No worries. We'll take it from here :)
